

# **四六级写作常用句型**

 **(1)** **用于句首提出论题或现象的句型**
 ① Recently, ...has become the focus of the society.
 ② ...has been playing an increasingly important role in our day-to-day life
 ③ Nowadays there is a growing concern for...
 ④ Nowadays it is common to hear/see...
 ⑤ ...has become a common occurrence in our daily life.
 ⑥ Nowadays more and more people are beginning to be aware of the seriousness of...
 ⑦ It is only during the last/past few years that man has become generally aware that...
 ⑧ There is an old/popular saying/proverb which says/goes...
 ⑨ In recent years, there is a general tendency...
 ⑩ Nowadays...has become a problem we have to face.
 
 **(2)** **用于比较、阐述不同观点的常用句型**
 ① Some people like/prefer..., while others are/feel inclined to...
 ② There are different opinions among people as to...
 ③ Some people claim that...is superior to...Others, however, I disagree with it.
 ④ Some people believe...Others maintain...Still others claim...
 ⑤ Some people suggest...Others, however, hold the opposite opinion.
 ⑥ On the one hand, people tend to...On the other hand, they feel...
 ⑦ Some people argue that...Others, in contrast, believe that...
 ⑧ Although more and more people come to believe...there are still others who insist that...
 ⑨ On the contrary, there are people in favor of...
 ⑩ There are some people who hold different opinions about...
 
 **(3)** **用于陈述个人观点想法的常用句型**
 ① My own experience tells me that...
 ② In my opinion, we should attack more importance to...
 ③ As for my own idea about...I believe...
 ④ As far as I am concerned, I plan to...
 ⑤ Personally, I prefer...
 ⑥ In my view, both sides are partly right in that...
 ⑦ But for me, I would rather...
 ⑧ My own point of view is that...
 ⑨ In conclusion, I support the statement that...
 ⑩ As for me, I tend to choose...
 
 **(4)** **用于结尾的常用句型**
 ① From what has been discussed/mentioned above, we may conclude that...
 ② Therefore, it is not difficult to draw/come to the conclusion that...
 ③ It is high time that something was done about...
 ④ From all the reasons/consideration above, it is evident/clear/obvious that...
 ⑤ Taking into account all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that...
 ⑥ Given the reasons/consideration I have just outlined/discussed/presented, I strongly recommend that...
 ⑦ It is clear, therefore, that...
 ⑧ All in all, what really matters is, in fact, to...
 ⑨ It is essential that effective measure be taken to...
 ⑩ From what has been discussed above, we may reasonably arrive at the conclusion that...
 In conclusion, the most important is...
 On the whole, it is high time that every one...
 As a result, we should take some effective steps to...
 Judging by the figures/statistics, it is not difficult to see that...
 Only in this way/in so doing, can be really...
 
 **(5)** **用于书信写作的常用句型**
 ①申请信/求职信
 I’m writing to apply for admittance to your university/college as a visiting scholar/research assistant.
 I’m writing to explore the possibility of spending one or two years working /studying in your institute/laboratory/company.
 I would like to apply for admission to your department/university for study in...
 Please send me an application form for admission to your graduate program.
 According to this morning’s *Times/China Daily/Beijing Youth Daily*, you want an experienced efficient secretary.
 Your advertisement in this morning’s transcript/*Business Weekly*... appeals to me because ... I offer my qualifications in the hope that you will consider me for the job.
 I understand from Mr... that there is an opening for a reporter on the staff of the New York Sun.
 My former associates/employers will tell you that I am neat, accurate and painstaking in my work, that I am tactful and courteous, and that I am resourceful, loyal to the job, and of pleasing personality.
 They will tell you that I am conscientious, that I have an agreeable personality and appearance, and that I get along well with everyone.
 Thank you for your time and consideration.
 Look forward to hearing from you soon.
 I am looking forward to the pleasure of a personal interview.
 ②邀请信及答复
 It is with the greatest pleasure that I write to cordially invite you to attend the meeting.
 It gives me the greatest pleasure to invite you to visit this exhibition.
 Will you and Mrs. Green give me the pleasure of dining with us at the Beijing Hotel on Sunday, Oct 10th, at eight o’clock?
 John and I would be very happy if you and Mr. Latimer could come to dinner on Saturday the nineteenth at seven o’clock. We do hope you can join us.
 John and I are wondering if you can dine with us on Tuesday, the fifteenth, at half-past six. Afterwards, we plan to hear the University Glee Club at Auditorium.
 Mrs Green and I are delighted to accept your kind invitation to dine with you at the Beijing Hotel on Sunday, at eight o’clock, and are looking forward to that evening with great pleasure.
 It is very kind of you to ask us to dinner this coming Saturday evening, but, to our regret, we cannot accept it.
 I am sorry not be able to accept your kind invitation to lunch on the fourteenth. Unfortunately my plans have been changed, and I will be returning to Troy on Monday.
 ③批评、抱怨、投诉
 I am writing to express my dissatisfaction with/at...
 I am writing to complain about...
 I think it’s high time you realized...
 To improve the situation/solve the above problem, it is advisable for you to take the following measures.
 We know that you are not generally careless, but we would like your assurance that this will not happen again.
 I wish to refer you to an incident which occurred...calling for some remedial action.
 I must warn you that unless you do something about the situation I will be forced to take legal action.
 To be frank, I am not prepared to put up with the situation any longer.
 There are some problems with the (flat) that I wish to bring to attention. For one thing, there is...For another, ...
 ④感谢信
 Thank you very much for the kindness you have given me during my stay in Paris. I have really enjoyed my visit there.
 I warmly appreciate your hospitality.
 I don’t know how to thank you for your kindness to me.
 I inform you with gratitude that your parcel reached me.
 We are indebted to you for your help.
 It was thoughtful and generous of you to send me such a beautiful and fancy gift.
 With deepest gratitude I write you here a few lines.
 I am writing to thank you, on behalf of my wife and on my own behalf, for the lovely time we had at your party last night.
 I find an ordinary “thank you” entirely inadequate to tell you how grateful I am for your wonderful present.
 
 **（6）用于描写漫画、图表的常见句型**
 ①  As the graph/chart/table shows/ depicts, ...
 ②  As is clearly shown in the graph/chart/table, …
 ③  The graph/ chart/ table shows/indicates/ reveals that…
 ④  It can be seen /concluded from the graph/ chart/ table/picture that …
 ⑤  From the cartoon/picture, we can see that...
 ⑥  Accordingly to the statistics shown in the first/second graph,…
 ⑦  Why are there such great changes /a sharp contrast during the past 20 years?
 ⑧  Two main factors contribute to this. 
 ⑨  Three possible reasons contribute to/ can explain this phenomenon.
 ⑩  There are mainly two reasons explaining these changes.

 

★常见于文章开头的词句
 (1) With the development (progress, growth, etc.) of society (science, technology, economy, etc.), … has become more important than ever before in daily life.
 (2) Recently, the problem of … has become the world’s focus.
 ★常见于文章结尾的词句
 (1) In conclusion; In short; In summary; In brief; In a word; To conclude; To sum up; To end up等
 (2) It’s only when one works hard enough that his success can be secured.
 ★表示先后次序的词句
 first(ly), second(ly), third(ly), ...; to begin with..., moreover..., finally...; first of all, next, then, eventually; meanwhile; in the mean time; in due time; since then; shortly after等。
 ★表示因果关系的词句
 because of; due to; owing to; thanks to; as a result; for this reason; consequently; accordingly; thus; hence; therefore; in this way等。
 ★表示比较和对比的词句
 unlike； in contrast; on the contrary; despite; in spite of; on the other hand; otherwise; while; whereas; nevertheless; although; but; yet; still; likewise; in like manner; similarly; in the same way; just as等。
 ★表示附加的词句
 again; in addition; and; also; furthermore; moreover; what’s more; not only... but also; besides; apart from等。
 ★表层进关系
 additionally, in addition, also, besides, likewise, not only...but also, further, furthermore, in other words, moreover, equally important, for one thing...for another, what’s more, on the one hand...on the other hand, as well, last but not least.
 ★表举例
 for example, for instance, a case in point, to illustrate, as an illustration, just as, take...for example, as follows.
 ★表让步/转折关系
 though, although, as, while, despite, in spite of, regardless of, even though, for all that, but, yet, however, in contrast, still, nevertheless, otherwise, whereas, on the contrary, on the other hand, at the same time.
 ★表解释同位关系
 that is (to say), ...roughly means, in other words, by definition, namely, as a matter of fact, as...suggests, as regards, with regard to, concerning, as for, in terms of.
 ★表条件关系
 if, in case (of), so long as, on condition that, assuming that, lest, while.
 ★表选择关系
 or, or rather, alternatively, instead (of), rather than, whether...or, either...or, neither...nor, not...but.
 ★表总结关系
 all in all, in all, briefly, in brief, altogether, to conclude, in conclusion, in one word, in short, in summary, to sum up, to summarize, on the whole, in sum, as has been mentioned (above).

 

 