# 四级写作

## 注意事项

- **标点正确**。the book of The old man and sea、...
- **符号正规**。etc..
- **别跑题**
- **简写尽量不要写，书写工整、干净**。
- **三段式，字数150-170即可**
- **自圆你说，相关即可**。

## 常用动词替换

- 提高、提升：enhance、promote、improve、facilitate、stimulate、upgrade、boost、enrich
- 加强：reinforce、strengthen、consolidate、hone、sharpen、intensify
- 培养：cultivate、foster、nurture
- think：assume、hold、assert、argue、maintain、insist、be of the idea that...
- very：significantly、unusually、fairly、extremely
- importance：vital、critical、indispensable、valuable、part and porcel
- more and more：increasingly、matter、the current state of affairs=status quo(现状)
- 解决：combat、address、solve、tackle、harness、curb、optimise
- 珍惜：value、treasure、cherish
- 人名：Jack Ma、Steve Jobs、Stephen Hawking、William Shakespeare
- indicate、graphically(生动地)、depicte(描述)、famous-saying(名言)、disclose/reveal(揭示)、an increasing number of(越来越多)、increasingly(越来越) +adv./adj.
- pay close/little/ignore attention to()、significance(重要性)、necessity(必要性)、thought-provoking、reflect/mirror、caption、theme
- phenomenon、account of(解释)、currently(如今)、advance technology(高科技技术)、cultural communication、lead to/cause、try to、convey/send、infer/deduce、draw/attract attention(吸引力)、vitally import(至关重要)
- highlight(强调)、attach importance to(重要性)
- I feel attached to you.
- 引导词：It is widely believed/thought/agreed that......、There is no doubt/exaggeration(夸张) that......、with the development of society/**with the society developing**,......、with economy boosting,......、with competition becoming dramatic,......、with the caption disclosing the theme of "..."、
- 插入语：as a matter of fact、directly or indirectly、in one way or another
- she **is,as a matter of fact,beautiful**.
- Tangible **can,directly or indirectly,influence** us.
- **It is universally acknowledged that** china is,**as a matter of fact**,very great **owing to the truth that** china has a history of more than 5,000 years.
- due to the fact that......、owing to the truth that.....、in that
- Information technology influences life
- **With the society developing**,there is no doubt in saying that information technology can,in one way or another,bring a great influence on our life in that information technology improves the **efficiency** of our work and study.

## 万能例子

- Take,Steve Jobs,an innovator of our age,the late founder of Apple company,who believe in 主题 in his lifetime,for example.


- It is 主题 that helps him fulfill his personal ambition to change the world and bring much value to our world.


- Google,the star Internet company attaining a string of prominent feats with some unrivalled(无法匹敌的) products,**serves as a shinining and fitting example.**
- It is 主题 that helps this firm create enormous value to both its shareholders and the general public.
- Nelson Mandela,a giant and a great hero,one of the world's most inspiring examples of strong wil,tells with his life story that fortitude in the face of adversity and perseverance on one's dream,however,whenever and wherever are golden rules to the success.
- Steve Jobs,the late founder of Apple company,tells with his life story that the innovation ,however,whenever and wherever is golden rule to the success.
- Jack Ma,the founder of Alibaba company,best illustrates the importance of 主题 with his succes story which has inspired a lot of youngsters.
- China ha **witnessed** the huge development in online education sector during the past decade
- The idea that we can rely completely on the information technology to get full education **oversimplifies**.
- The effect(作用) of schooling and group study also **matters**,even in this ever rapidly changing modern world
- The down-to-earth spirit **gives** us the opportunity to fulfill our personal ambitions.
- The widespread of mobile Internet **leaves** senior citizens vulnerable to the so-called digital divide. 
- Love is a touch and yet not a touch.
- In the middle of the picture **stand/sit/lie/run/walk/be** a father and his son,with son telling his father that he is worrying about the nuclear waste,and with father replying that you should take care of your room first.
- In the sofa of the picture **sits** a mom ,looking at her daughter happily ,with her daughter telling her that:"I am accepted by the university of your choice." 
- Only in this way can we put the situation on hold.
- Hardly can we achieve our goal without the spirit of perseverance.
- The mobile Internet,the ever great innovation of this century,is reshaping our ways of living,learning and playing.
- Learning foreign larguages is unusually popular in China,which left us a deep impression.
- If there were no reform and opening-up policy,we would never **taste** KFC or McDonald's.
- Were ther no sth,sb would never do sth.
- Were there no cultural exchange,we would never **taste** the wonder of western cultures.
- Were there no team spirit,we would never **taste** the real happiness of success,especially in this ever rapidly changing modern world.
- It is high time that + Ved
- It is high time that we **took** some measures to tackle this problem.
- It is imperative that correspanding(相应的) laws and regulations be introduced(制定) and enforced(执行) to curb(控制) and harness(治理) this urgent problem.
- Life is cherished by everyone,but time is valued by few.
- We should enhance ,promote and improve our environmental preservation awareness.
- I am of the idea that the sharing economy is in the best interests of whole soicety.
- With status quo being so serious,it is high time that we took effective initiatives to curb the situation.
- ......the phenomenon that pollution is severe.
- As is graphically depicted/pictured by the cartoon/drawing,主句,which is thought provoking.
- Tangible is teaching,looking at us,with a bird flying in the room.
- Honesty is the steel that forges the supporting structure of the society，and the society can not grow steady，if this invaluable asset is ever neglected in any possible manner.


## 四级作文深度展开

- **提纲式作文**
- **图画/图表作文**
- **应用文：书信、广告、告示、通知、介绍、演讲**

### 议论文

**2013年6月**

​	In the middle of the picture **stand** a father and his son,with son telling his father that he is worrying about the nuclear waste,and with father replying that you should take care of your room first.

​	The picture reveals that down-to-earth spirit  plays an indispensable role in one's personal growth and success.Take,Steve Jobs,an innovator of our age,the late founder of Apple company,who believe in perseverance in his lifetime,for example.It is his courage to face any challenge with down-to-earth spirit that helps him fulfill the dream to change the world and bring much value to the society.

​	I am of the idea that were there no hardworking,we would never the taste real happiness of success.So,it is high time that we cultivated ,fostered and nurtured this spirit among youngsters.Only in this way can we meet a better world in the future,I argue.

### **背景句**

- Recently the issue of 主题 has been in the limelight and has aroused wide concern in the public.

- Along with the advace of the society more and more problems are brought to our attention,one of which is 主题...

- Now we are entering a brand new era full of opportunities and innovations,so great changes have taken place in many sectors of our society.




​	Now we are entering a brand new era full of opportunities and innovations,so great changes have taken place in many sectors of our society.Online shopping is increasingly popular among youngsters and changing the way of our life.

​	There are many advantages and benefits brought by this novelty.As we all know,our country has witnessed a huge development in online shopping during the past decade ,which has left the whole world a deep impression.So,the quality of our life has been greatly enhance and boosted.It is not hard to imagine were  there no online shopping,we would not taste the better life.

​	Indeep ,it has been  an indispensable part of our life.Nevertheless,a better online environment should be cultivated and nurtured to meet our shopping demand.Only in this way can we hope to witness an ideal scene of the online shopping.

### 应用文

**书信、Email**

Dear sir or Madam,

​	正文

​					Yours sincerely,

​					LiMIng

**告示、通知**

​					Notice

正文

​									The student union

**广告**

​					Advertisement/Sales/On sales

**2017年6月**

​							Advertisement

​	Now we are entering a brand new era full of opportunities and innovations,so great changes have taken place in many sectors of our society.Our way of learning has been reshaped by the information technology.A computer has been an indispensable devicel/machine /tool for our individual growth and success.

​	I have a computer of Lenovo,QT800,with 4G memory and 2T hard disk.Although ,I have used it for two years, it is in the good condition of operation.I intend to sell it at the price of 1200RMB.

​	This computer has been with me for much a long time and I have a strong emotional bond with it.So,I hope you can cherish and value it.